---
layout: post
title:      "My Reason Why"
date:       2020-04-26 13:36:44 +0000
permalink:  my_reason_why
---


Learning computer programing and devling into the world of software engineering is the last thing I thought I would end up so passionate about. Growing up no one spoke to me about technology or computer science, but as it has shaped the life of society and become a culture, it has vastly gained my interest.  My educational career started upstate as a Health Studies major. I took a lot of different courses but none pertaining to computer language. Looking back at my trajectory I am surprised that learning a programing language is not something that has peeked my interest a lot sooner. I have always had a curosity for technoloyg and enjoyed reading sites like cnet for the latest technology news. It was not until I started working for one of the most innovated and talked about companies in the world that I was formely introduced to a whole new world, programming language. How I got to Apple was all a result of two things, my love for the brand and my incessant search for happiness in a job. After college my first job was at a small, privately owned office that consisted of literally no staff, the owners and I. I applied my skills and knoweldge in administration to help the small company become organzied and productive, but this was not my career, it was not what I went to college for. So one day one of the guys working there, told me about his experience at CMD Urgent Care. At that point I had applied to every healthcare and hospital job posting available. I was not getting calls back for interviews and was quickly becoming discouraged. Until that very moment. I applied for a job at CityMD Corporate and was called for an interview. After a few days I got a job offer and that was one of the life changing moments for me. I was finally breaking into the healthcare field, in my career, at a well known and respected company. I was on my way to doing a job I loved in my choosen field. WRONG! A job in corporate America is still a job in corporate America. The company itself was great, my managers and supervisors were amazing. It was truly a first great job "real" job out of college but I was not growing. Although I was being challenged, my hours were flexible, the pay decent, I knew I wanted more out of a career in healthcare. Thus started a series of lateraly transitions that lead me quick to the same exactly places in my 9-5pm job.  I quickly found myself, bored, unchallenged and very unahppy with my choices in employment and career. Now its 2020 and almost 10 years since graduating college and relfecting on the things I truly enjoy. By now I know exactly what I want for myself in terms of employment and a career. It is definitinaly not in heathcare anymore. Through out my journey I have discovered a lot about my self and one thing I learned I am very passionate about is writing. I have consistently kept a journal for as long as I can remember. Writing and my passions simply was not something I thought I could make a living from until learning more about coding and programming language. As it turns out coding and writing have a lot in common. Writing and coding both require me to learn a language and write. Coding I feel also will offer me the flexibility that I am looking for in a job and possibly break me away from a traditional 9-5pm job. I am choosing to learn software engineering to change careers and the opportunity to actually work doing what I love and am passionate about. 10 years post college, I think I finally found what I want to be when I grow up. A software engineer.  


