---
layout: post
title:      "The Magic of Rails "
date:       2020-10-12 03:28:15 +0000
permalink:  the_magic_of_rails
---


Ruby on rails is a free, open-source web development framework, created by David Heinemeier. Ruby on rails is not a programming language but a framework that is  written in the Ruby programming language. Rails is used by companies such as Airbnb, SoundCloud, Disney, Hulu, GitHub, and Shopify. It operates on the MVC app architecture that helps developers naturally separate concerns and organize their apps properly. MVC stands for models, controllers and views. They each play a vital role in any Rails app.  The model file contains the logic of the app and has access to specific database records. The controller transmits data request from the user to the model and then delivers the data that is rendered in the view to the user. The controller file contains all of our CRUD actions. Finally, the view file does not contain any programming logic and renders what the controller sends. The view file corresponds directly to the controller file.  The MVC subdirectories can be created via the generator rails generate controller.  After our files have been created we can test to see if our web server is working by running $ rails server in our terminal and then navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)  into the address bar of our browser.  You'll know you are successfully running rails when you see a YAY! Your on rails image

When you start to use a web app created by Rails, a browser sends a *request,* which is received by a web server and passed on to the   *controller.*  The controller sometimes renders a *view,* which is a template that gets converted to HTML and sent back to the browser.  The controller also interacts with  our *model,*  which is a Ruby object that represents an element of the site. This brings us to Rails *routers. Routers* determine where to send requests that come from the web browser.  Routes can be found in config/routes.rb and show us how to navigate to certain webpages. Now we are finally ready to get started with building a simple rails app.  To create a new app we run $ rails new (name of app) and all the necessary files will be created. After we have created that we can go ahead and create a repository on github. Github will serve as our version control to track any and all changes made to our application.
